# Water consumption survey
The personal project involves data collected by Prerak Trust (https://www.preraktrust.org/). I wanted to work with real world data that wasn't cleaned. This is a project to practice data analysis using R.

The first part of the code is transferring the data into R along with removing any columns that were part of the data collection program but were not needed for the R analysis. There were some errors in the data collection (separate families from different wards were grouped together). 

I first made a box plot to check the median water consumption of each ward. From the box plot it seems as though wards 3 and 4 have a lower average water consumption than that of the other wards. If the organization were to look into this, they could set up the infrastructure required for wards 3 and 4 have access to more water or they could have programs for more responsible water consumption in the other wards. Working towards a task like that would involve looking at average water consumption in other villages. I did an ANOVA analysis to compare the difference between average water consumption in each ward. The analysis indicated that there was a statistical significant difference between the means, a TUKEY HSD analysis was used to look further into the differences. The TUKEY HSD indicated a significant difference in average water consumption between wards 3-1, 4-1, 6-1, 4-3, 6-3 and 6-4. 

I created a scatter plot of water consumption in each ward while looking at the water source. A large number of people use private borewells. A bar graph was also made to get a better understanding of the water consumption of each ward and the source of water. It seems that the use of a provate borewell is not exclusive to any ward and any amount of water consumed. The organization may use ths information to create programs to educate residents in each ward about sustainable and responsible water consumption from private borewells, especially for those families with a higher water consumption.

I next wanted to compare the water consumption between different family members. Looking at the data through this aspect could identify the target population for workshops on responsible water consumption. I first checked to see if there was a difference the average water consumption between men and women. I expected women to have a higher average consumption due to duties like cooking and cleaning dishes, roles that a traditionally filled by women in villages.The box plot showed that there is no difference in the average consumption. Next I wanted to see if different family members had a different average consumption. It seems that the family elders and the father consume more water. The difference is statistically significant with a p-value < 0.05. 

I then looked at the relation between family medical expense and water consumption. I wasn't expecting a relation between the two variable and I compared them as an excercise on working with two continuous variables. As expected there is no relation. I created a scatter plot, as well as a smooth ling graph to identify the trend in the data. 
